♪ [music] ♪
In this video, we're going to
write some client-side JavaScript
to make our lives a little bit easier
for storing latitude and longitude.
You see that I have this address
field. This is the finished version that
I've got up and running. If I were to say
"Paris," and it will automatically give me
this drop down autocomplete, where I can
select Paris and hit enter.
It's going to populate the lat and the
long, or the long and the lat.
And I can do things like Hamilton,
Ontario. And it will give me the long and
the lat. So that's extremely helpful
because there's no way that I want to type
in the lat and long and your users also
don't know that. So, this is called
geolocation where it's going to...you give
it an address or the name of a...
Mulberry Coffee. That's a coffee shop
around the corner from me.
You just give it something that you'd
normally type into Google, and then it
will do sort of a reverse lookup for the
lat and the long, and store it in there.
So that's what we want to do. And let's
take a look at how client-side JavaScript
is written in our course. If you open up
your public folder, and you open up your
JavaScript folder you're going to see this
delicious_app.js. This is sort of the
entry point for all of our JavaScript.
This is where Webpack is bundling them all
together. And then in our modules
directory is where we're going to write
each of the client-side modules that will
happen. So I've already included bling.js.
If you've never used it before, bling.js
will just give us short form to document
our query selector and query selector
all. It will give us .on on
each of our nodes. So we could say... it
sort of makes it look like jquery and a
little bit nicer. So we can do things like
.wrapper on click. And rather than us
having to do the whole var wrapper equals
document.queryselector and then wrapper.
addevent listen or click etc. You get
the point. Right? So,
this is just a little helper called bling
js. I modified it a little bit but it's
based on Paul Irish's thing. He was a
pretty cool developer from Google and you
should check out what he's done here. So
we want to make a module and we're going
to call it autocomplete. So we'll go into
our modules folder and call autocomplete.
js. And we're going to make a function
called autocomplete. That's going to take
in an input, a lat input and a long
input. And from that it's going to do the
work for us and populate. Then we can
export default autocomplete.
So I'm using ES6 here because we do not
have ES6 on node just yet.
But we do have ES6 in Webpack and the
ability to compile that for us.
So we have that. And we'll go back into
our delicious app right here and we will
import that. Import autocomplete from
modules autocomplete. Good so then we have
this autocomplete function that we can
just run. Click autocomplete and we need
to pass it three things. We need to pass
it our address... address input,
our longitude input, and our latitude
input. But you'll notice here that I've
done it lat and long. So opposite.
Why? Because Google Maps does it the right
way and MongoDB does it the other way. So
it's kind of confusing got to keep
switching them around. But stay sharp,
you'll get it. So first thing we need we
need to pass it the address input
#address. So let's go to our store form
.pug and our address has an ID of address,
Our long has ID of long, and
our lat has an ID of lat. Good. So
address... the second thing we need to
pass it is the latitude. Is that right?
Yeah. Lat input. And the third thing we
need to pass it is the longitude.
Again this is not jquery.
Looks like jquery but rather
than us doing $ it's just saying document.
queryselector. But who's got time to write
that? We just do $ nice and quickly. Good.
So we have that. Let's go back and into
our autocomplete and let's just
console.log the input, the lat input,
and the long input. Just make sure
that's all working. So we'll go back to
our activation here. Refresh the page.
And there we go. We got our input.
Our input are required here. Good so these
are all working. Now we're going to write
some JavaScript for Google. First thing
will say, 'If there is no input, return."
What that will do is, "skip this function
from running if there is no input on the
page." It's a bunch of different ways you
could do that it's a nice simple one to
skip that function from running if there's
no address on the actual page.
Then, first we need the drop down.
And this is part of the
Google Maps autocomplete API.
So I've already loaded up if you view
source on this sucker right here.
You will see, like, Google... You'll see
that we've already loaded in Google Maps
with the API key right there. So we'll say
"const dropdown = new google.maps
.places.Autocomplete," capital A.
And then you give it an input value.
Good so just that alone, if we refresh
this. We go to... Let's go to add a new
one, actually. Now if I were to type in
here "Paris," it will automatically start
to autocomplete it. So just with that one
line of code, we now have autocomplete
showing up on that. But, that doesn't give
us all that much because we need to
populate the lat and long. So we'll take
this drop down and we'll add listener.
And add listener is a Google Maps
way to add an event listener.
You listen for the event called
"place_change." And when that happens
we're going to run a little arrow function
here. And we'll say, "const place =
dropdown." So that's the actual Input
".getPlace." Let's just console log
palace...place. Let's console log the
place here and see what we've got.
So open up your dev tools here.
And bring that sucker on the bottom.
Give it a refresh. And let's type in
Paris. Hit enter. And you see when I hit
enter, it will automatically give us this
object here with address components,
all of the different pieces of the actual
address. It gives us some photos of Paris.
It gives us some HTML attribute.
It gives us the geometry.
It gives us the types. That's the locale
... Locality and political...
Everything you could possibly ever want,
it will format the address as well in the
HTML. So what we do need is if we open up
the geometry, and we open up...
Where did that go?
There we go.
Geometry.location.lat.
And that's a function that will give us
the actual lat as well as the long. So
here's what we do. We say, 'latInput.
value = place.geometry.location.lat"
and you can just duplicate that and
change out the lng with the lng. And then
if we then refresh this page and you'll
notice every time we take a save, your
Webpack bundle, if I clear this out,
give us a save. Notice that Webpack...
Didn't change anything.
If you change something and give it a
save, you'll notice that Webpack will
re-bundle it for us.
You actually have to make a
significant change in order for it to
trigger a change. It won't trigger a
change on something like a semicolon.
There we go. Put it back in. Give it a
save. It will regenerate our app.bundle.js
file for us, which is great. We
refresh this. Now If I type in Paris,
select one of them, it's going to
automatically populate the long and the
lat. Again, let me do Hamilton, Ontario.
It will automatically populate the lat and
long. What? What happened there? So
Hamilton. Okay. And then I type in Paris
and hit enter. And it actually refreshes
the page. Why?
Because what's happening
here is we're typing
in Paris and hitting enter.
By hitting enter, we're doing two things.
We're confirming the autocomplete. But
then we're also submitting the entire
form. Because by hitting enter in one of
these inputs here it will cause the form
to actually submit. So we can quickly fix
that. Go right below this drop down here.
And we'll say, "If someone hits enter on
the address field, don't submit the form."
So we'll take our input, which is the
address field. We'll say .on
because we have on because normally it's
.add event listener.
But we can do input.on because we are
using bling.js. So on key down.
And then there's an event and we'll say,
If e.key code is equal to 13...
Why? Because keycode.info... This is if
you hit enter, 13 is the keycode for
enter. Escape 27. You get the point. So
"if e.keycode = 13," we're going to say
"e.prevent default," and that will
stop the regular, which is submitting the
actual form. So give that a save. Let's
double check that now. Go back to our
store here. Type in Paris. Hit enter. Type
in Hamilton. Hit enter. You'll see that
it's not submitting the form now, it's
just confirming the autocomplete that we
have there.
Good. So that is the autocomplete
for Google. We are going to come back to
Google Maps when we actually start A,
plotting it on a map. And B,
showing a map on the
single store pages.
♪ [music] ♪